## ORIGINAL ARTICLE

# Using the DSSAT-CERES-Maize model to simulate crop yield and nitrogen cycling in fields under long-term continuous maize production

H. L. Liu • J. Y. Yang • C. F. Drury • W. D. Reynolds • C. S. Tan • Y. L. Bai • P. He • J. Jin • G. Hoogenboom

Received: 28 May 2010 / Accepted: 14 August 2010 / Published online: 31 August 2010 -Springer Science+Business Media B.V. 2010

Abstract Simulation models, such as the DSSAT (Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer) Crop System Models are often used to characterize, develop and assess field crop production practices. In this study, one of the DSSAT Cropping System Model, CERES-Maize, was employed to characterize maize (Zea mays) yield and nitrogen dynamics in a 50-year maize production study at Woodslee, Ontario,

H. L. Liu - J. Y. Yang (&) - C. F. Drury - W. D. Reynolds - C. S. Tan Greenhouse and Processing Crops Research Centre, Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, 2585 County Rd 20, Harrow, ON N0R 1G0, Canada e-mail: Jingyi.yang@agr.gc.ca

H. L. Liu - Y. L. Bai - P. He - J. Jin Ministry of Agriculture Key Laboratory of Crop Nutrition and Fertilization, Institute of Agricultural Resources and Regional Planning, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 100081 Beijing, People's Republic of China

P. He - J. Jin International Plant Nutrition Institute China Program, 100081 Beijing, China

- G. Hoogenboom
Department of Biological and Agricultural Engineering, The University of Georgia, 1109 Experiment Street, Griffin, Georgia 30223-1797, USA

Present Address:

G. Hoogenboom

AgWeatherNet Program, Washington State University, Prosser WA 99350-8694, USA

Canada (42130 N, 82440 W). The treatments selected for this study included continuous corn/maize with fertilization (CC-F) and continuous corn/maize without fertilization (CC-NF) treatments. Sequential model simulations of long-term maize yield (1959–2008), near-surface (0–30 cm) soil mineral nitrogen (N) content (2000), and soil nitrate loss (1998–2000) were compared to measured values. The model did not provide accurate predictions of annual maize yields, but the overall agreement was as good as other researchers have obtained. In the CC-F treatment, near-surface soil mineral N and cumulative soil nitrate loss were simulated by the model reasonably well, with n-RMSE = 62 and 29%, respectively. In the CC-NF treatment, however, the model consistently overestimated soil nitrate loss. These outcomes can be used to improve our understanding of the long-term effects of fertilizer management practices on maize yield and soil properties in improved and degraded soils.

Materials and methods

#### Field experimental data

The data were collected from a 50 year long term experiment established in 1959 at the Honourable Eugene F. Whelan Experimental Farm, Agricultural and Agri-Food Canada, Woodslee, Ontario (42130 N, 82440 W, Elevation 186 m). The soil is Brookston clay loam (Orthic Humic Gleysol), which is a poorly drained, lacustrine soil with an average root zone texture of 28% sand, 35% silt, 37% clay, and an average pH of 6.1. Average organic carbon in the top layer (i.e., Ap horizon) was 2.0–2.5% and surface slopes are generally\0.1%. The cropping treatments included continuous maize versus a maize-oatsalfalfa-alfalfa rotation, and the fertilization treatments included no fertilization versus chemical fertilization. The fertilization treatments included both a pre-plant application of starter fertilizer as well as a sidedress application for maize at the 6 leaf stage. The starter fertilizer (16.8 kg N ha-1 , 67.2 kg P2O5 ha-1 and 33.6 kg K2O ha-1 ) was applied as a broadcast incorporated application to the soil 1 day before planting (Table [1](#page-3-0)). The side-dress application was a band application (2–5 cm deep) of 112 kg N ha-1 15 cm from either side of the maize when the maize was at the 6 leaf stage (Table [1)](#page-3-0). The no–fertilizer treatment did not receive any chemical or organic fertilizer over the 50 year period; and as a result, many of its soil physical and hydraulic properties (e.g. bulk density, hydraulic conductivity, organic carbon, etc.) were substantially degraded relative to the chemical fertilization treatment (Table [3)](#page-7-0). The history and treatments of the site were described previously (Bolton et al. [1970](#page-13-0); Drury et al. [1998](#page-13-0); Drury and Tan [1995](#page-13-0); Tan et al. [2002](#page-14-0)). Two treatments were selected for this study, continuous corn/maize with fertilization (CC-F) and continuous corn/maize without fertilization (CC-NF). Each plot was 76.2 m long by 12.2 m wide, and tillage consisted of fall mouldboard ploughing to 0.15 m depth, then discing and harrowing in the spring prior planting. Herbicides were applied to both CC-F and CC-NF as required to control weeds.

Planting density varied from 37,000 to 50,000 seeds ha-1 from 1959 to 1982 and 55,000 seeds ha-1 from 1983 to 1996 with a 1.0 m row spacing (Drury and Tan [1995](#page-13-0); Gregorich et al. [2001](#page-13-0)), and it was increased to 62,000 seeds ha-1 from 1997 to 2007 with a 1.0 m row spacing. In 2008, the density was increased to 75,000 seeds ha-1 with a row spacing of 0.76 m, which is a typical corn row spacing. Maize grain yields were measured annually in the fall by harvesting 33 m lengths of 10 interior rows, and then grain sub-samples were taken to determine grain moisture. Grain yields were normalized to 15.5% grain moisture content, and maize dry yield was also calculated. Each year after harvest, maize residues were incorporated into the soil by mouldboard ploughing. Soil nitrate leaching through drainage tiles was measured during 1998–2000 (Tan et al. [2002](#page-14-0)) and soil mineral N in the 0–15 and 15–30 cm layers were measured in 2008.

#### Model input/output and evaluation data

#### Model description

The Cropping System Model (CSM) of DSSAT is a well developed process-oriented model which is capable of simulating long term rotation experiments (Tsuji et al. [1994](#page-14-0); Jones et al. [2003](#page-13-0)). Each crop in the rotation has a separate module to simulate phenology, daily growth, development and partition biomass to leaves, stems, roots, ears and grain based on the supply and demands of soil water, carbon and nitrogen and phosphorus nutrients in response to weather and management conditions (Jones et al. [2003](#page-13-0)). The current version of DSSAT (4.5) contains 10 separate models in the DSSAT-CSM to simulate the growth of 29 different crops as well as fallow fields (Daroub et al. [2003](#page-13-0); Hoogenboom et al. [1999](#page-13-0); Jones et al. [2003](#page-13-0); Jones et al. [2001](#page-13-0); Tsuji et al. [1994](#page-14-0)). There were two soil organic nitrogen submodels in

| Year      | Plantinga (date) | Plant density   | Fertilizer application |                    | Tillage application |             |  |
|-----------|------------------|-----------------|------------------------|--------------------|---------------------|-------------|--|
|           |                  | (plant m-2<br>) | Starterb (date)        | Side-dressc (date) | Spring (date)       | Fall (date) |  |
| 1959–1965 | May 10           | 5.0             | May 5                  | Jun 19             | May 11              | Nov 10      |  |
| 1966–1982 | May 10           | 5.4             | May 5                  | Jun 19             | May 11              | Nov 10      |  |
| 1983      | Jun 15           | 5.5             | Jun 15                 | Jul 14             | Jun 15              | Nov 9       |  |
| 1984      | Jun 6            | 5.5             | May 5                  | Jun 28             | May 5               | Nov 1       |  |
| 1985      | May 8            | 5.5             | Apr 19                 | Jun 24             | Apr 19              | Nov 6       |  |
| 1986      | May 15           | 5.5             | Apr 14                 | Jun 26             | Apr 14              | Nov 13      |  |
| 1987      | May 6            | 5.5             | Apr 28                 | Jun 8              | Apr 28              | Nov 16      |  |
| 1988      | May 12           | 5.5             | Apr 29                 | Jun 16             | Apr 29              | Oct 31      |  |
| 1989      | May 26           | 5.5             | May 10                 | Jun 26             | May 10              | Nov 1       |  |
| 1990      | May 3            | 5.5             | May 1                  | Jun 18             | May 1               | Nov 1       |  |
| 1991      | May 10           | 5.5             | Apr 30                 | Jun 14             | Apr 30              | Oct 23      |  |
| 1992      | May 12           | 5.5             | May 5                  | Jun 30             | May 5               | Oct 29      |  |
| 1993      | May 20           | 5.5             | May 14                 | Jun 18             | May 14              | Oct 20      |  |
| 1994      | May 10           | 5.5             | May 4                  | Jun 17             | May 4               | Oct 24      |  |
| 1995      | May 16           | 5.5             | May 8                  | Jun 16             | May 8               | Oct 30      |  |
| 1996      | May 30           | 5.5             | May 27                 | Jun 27             | May 27              | Nov 6       |  |
| 1997      | Apr 30           | 6.2             | Jun 10                 | Jul 2              | Jun 10              | Nov 10      |  |
| 1998      | May 19           | 6.2             | May 19                 | Jun 19             | May 19              | Nov 17      |  |
| 1999      | May 2            | 6.2             | May 4                  | Jun 8              | May 4               | Nov 29      |  |
| 2000      | Jun 21           | 6.2             | Apr 17                 | Jul 12             | Apr 17              | Dec 5       |  |
| 2001      | May 7            | 6.2             | May 4                  | Jun 13             | May 4               | Nov 21      |  |
| 2002      | May 28           | 6.2             | May 5                  | Jun 27             | May 5               | Nov 13      |  |
| 2003      | Jun 18           | 6.2             | Apr 30                 | Jul 3              | Apr 30              | Dec 8       |  |
| 2004      | Jun 8            | 6.2             | Apr 29                 | Jul 8              | Apr 29              | Nov 22      |  |
| 2005      | May 11           | 6.2             | May 10                 | Jun 14             | May 10              | Nov 28      |  |
| 2006      | May 30           | 6.2             | Apr 28                 | Jun 29             | Apr 28              | Nov 28      |  |
| 2007      | May 8            | 6.2             | May 8                  | Jun 12             | May 8               | Nov 14      |  |
| 2008      | May 6            | 7.5             | Apr 24                 | Jun 17             | Apr 24              | Oct 20      |  |

<span id="page-3-0"></span>Table 1 Field management data from 1959 to 2008 for the continuous corn with fertilization (CC-F) treatment at Woodslee, Ontario, Canada

a Both the continuous corn with fertilization (CC-F) and the continuous corn with no fertilization (CC-NF) treatments were planted on the same date, with the same plant density and tilled on the same dates

b Starter fertilizer were applied on the same rates of 16.8 kg N ha-1 , 67.2 kg P2O5 ha-1 and 33.6 kg K2O ha-1 each year from 1959 to 2008

c Side-dress N fertilizer was applied on the same rate of 112 kg N ha-1 each year from 1959 to 2008

DSSAT 4.5: the CERES soil model and the Century soil model. For long-term sequence simulations, the Century-based soil model seems to predict soil organic nutrient processes and organic carbon dynamics more realistically than the CERES-based model (Gijsman et al. [2002)](#page-13-0), and hence the Centurybased soil model was selected for this study. Porter et al. [(2009)](#page-14-0) describe the organic carbon and carbonmediated soil processes in the Century-based soil model. Since the crop in this study was continuous maize, the Maize submodel in DSSAT was selected.

## Model input parameters

The required model inputs describe field management, daily weather, soil profile characteristics, initial soil condition, and cultivar characteristics. The primary field management inputs include crop <span id="page-4-0"></span>planting date and density; fertilization rate, date and depth; tillage and irrigation systems; and the amount and method of residue incorporation. These data were assembled from publications (Drury and Tan [1995;](#page-13-0) Tan et al. [2002](#page-14-0)) and unpublished field notes, and they cover the period from 1959 to 2008. The key model inputs are summarized in Table [1](#page-3-0).

The minimum weather input required to run DSSAT, includes daily solar radiation (MJ m-2 ), daily maximum and minimum temperature (C), and daily precipitation (mm). To meet this requirement, it was necessary to use daily weather data from both the Woodslee weather station adjacent to the field site, and the Harrow weather station which is 30 km from the field site (42020 N, 82540 W). For 1959–1977, Harrow weather data were used, and for 1978–2008, Woodslee weather data were used, except the solar radiation for 1978–1987 which was calculated using Harrow daily sun hour data. The WeatherMan tool (Pickering et al. [1994](#page-14-0); Wilkens [2004)](#page-14-0) in DSSAT 4.5 was used to check data, estimate missing values and calculate solar radiation from sun hours. Monthly weather data for selected years was used for cultivar calibration (Table [2](#page-5-0)).

The soil profile input data included lower soil water limit or wilting point water content (cm3 cm-3 ), upper drainage limit or field capacity water content (cm3 cm-3 ), upper soil water limit or saturated water content (cm3 cm-3 ), dry bulk density (g cm-3 ), soil organic C content (wt. %), saturated hydraulic conductivity, soil pH, clay content (wt. % \0.002 mm particle size), and silt content (wt. % 0.002–0.05 mm particle size). The water content, bulk density, organic C and saturated hydraulic conductivity data were measured from intact cores (10 cm diameter by 10 cm long) collected from the 0 to 10, 10 to 20, 20 to 30 and 30 to 40 cm depths during 1999 and 2000 (unpublished data); the pH, clay and silt data were obtained from a soil survey report (Bryant et al. [1987](#page-13-0)). The data were used to construct the model soil profiles as indicated in Table [3](#page-7-0). The DSSAT soil profile data also requires a maize root distribution/growth parameter (i.e. a factor from 0 to 1) (Stone et al. [1987](#page-14-0)), which was estimated here using the relationship: Root_growth_factor = 1.0 9 exp (-0.02 LayerCentre), where LayerCentre is the depth from the soil surface to the centre of the soil layer in question (Gijsman et al. [2007](#page-13-0)). The root growth factor was set to 1.0 if the centre of the soil layer was B20 cm from the surface (Table [3](#page-7-0)).

Soil profile initial conditions for the start of the simulations (May 10, 1959) were estimated by running DSSAT for 3 years (May 1 1956 to May 9 1959) using 1956–1959 weather data and the soil physical data for CC-F (Table [3](#page-7-0)), and the soil mineral N (NH4–N and NO3–N) and water content profiles measured in CC-F during year 2000. Use of the CC-F data for establishing the initial conditions of both treatments (CC-F, CC-NF) is justified on the grounds that maize was grown on all plots for 3 years 1956–1958 after tile installation (1955) to ensure that tile flow was uniform across plots before the start of the cropping and fertilizer treatments. Once the soil profile initial conditions were established, the simulations were run from May 10, 1959 to Dec 31, 2008.

#### Model evaluation

Model performance was evaluated by comparing simulated and measured values of maize grain yields for the entire 50 year period, soil profile N distribution for 2008, and nitrate loss in tile drainage water for 1998–2000. The comparisons were quantified via the ''EasyGrapher'' program (Yang and Huffman [2004](#page-15-0)).

Deviation and test statistics have been used extensively in the past to assess DSSAT performance (e.g. Rinaldi et al. [2007;](#page-14-0) Timsina and Humphreys [2006](#page-14-0)), and the merits of deviation and test statistics have been reviewed by others (e.g. Kobayashi and Salam [2000](#page-14-0); Loague and Green [1991;](#page-14-0) Willmott [1982](#page-14-0); Yang et al. [2000](#page-15-0)). However, each deviation/test statistic addresses only a specific aspect of a model's performance and no single statistic provides an overall model evaluation. Hence, we employed three deviation statistics (root mean square error, RMSE, normalized-RMSE (n-RMSE), forecasting efficiency, EF) and one test statistic (coefficient of determination, R2 ) in the evaluation of DSSAT-Maize. The deviation statistics were defined by:

$$\text{RMSE} = \left[ n^{-1} \sum_{i=1}^{n} \left( s_i - m_i \right)^2 \right]^{0.5} \tag{1}$$

<span id="page-5-0"></span>Table 2 Monthly, growing season and annual precipitation from 1959 to 2008 at Woodslee, Ontario, Canada

| Year | Jan<br>(mm) | Feb<br>(mm) | Mar<br>(mm) | Apr<br>(mm) | May<br>(mm) | Jun<br>(mm) | Jul<br>(mm) | Aug<br>(mm) | Sep<br>(mm) | Oct<br>(mm) | Nov<br>(mm) | Dec<br>(mm) | Growing<br>season (mm) | Annual<br>(mm) |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|------------------------|----------------|
| 1959 | 113         | 62          | 81          | 110         | 78          | 32          | 90          | 109         | 70          | 143         | 71          | 83          | 521                    | 1,041          |
| 1960 | 82          | 79          | 37          | 46          | 76          | 133         | 53          | 43          | 21          | 39          | 34          | 19          | 365                    | 663            |
| 1961 | 9           | 96          | 65          | 151         | 56          | 69          | 49          | 80          | 83          | 25          | 74          | 44          | 361                    | 800            |
| 1962 | 66          | 63          | 39          | 31          | 36          | 51          | 154         | 87          | 68          | 58          | 57          | 33          | 454                    | 743            |
| 1963 | 29          | 19          | 95          | 92          | 50          | 56          | 39          | 49          | 38          | 28          | 30          | 58          | 259                    | 582            |
| 1964 | 90          | 21          | 124         | 130         | 54          | 95          | 52          | 123         | 40          | 8           | 23          | 67          | 372                    | 826            |
| 1965 | 133         | 78          | 67          | 44          | 68          | 55          | 45          | 119         | 84          | 76          | 37          | 122         | 447                    | 927            |
| 1966 | 23          | 39          | 44          | 90          | 47          | 75          | 159         | 112         | 79          | 36          | 123         | 138         | 506                    | 963            |
| 1967 | 37          | 36          | 34          | 73          | 48          | 64          | 66          | 32          | 56          | 97          | 75          | 128         | 363                    | 746            |
| 1968 | 110         | 24          | 85          | 54          | 175         | 100         | 124         | 43          | 36          | 53          | 106         | 122         | 530                    | 1,030          |
| 1969 | 91          | 11          | 52          | 136         | 139         | 98          | 221         | 63          | 61          | 56          | 95          | 64          | 638                    | 1,086          |
| 1970 | 26          | 32          | 69          | 132         | 73          | 85          | 125         | 20          | 48          | 55          | 74          | 48          | 405                    | 786            |
| 1971 | 32          | 123         | 74          | 26          | 43          | 77          | 51          | 45          | 64          | 26          | 50          | 119         | 305                    | 730            |
| 1972 | 51          | 31          | 88          | 98          | 55          | 58          | 66          | 158         | 86          | 53          | 121         | 95          | 475                    | 959            |
| 1973 | 39          | 36          | 136         | 44          | 85          | 111         | 97          | 20          | 80          | 51          | 73          | 95          | 443                    | 868            |
| 1974 | 66          | 60          | 106         | 63          | 98          | 54          | 33          | 29          | 48          | 20          | 110         | 110         | 281                    | 795            |
| 1975 | 77          | 70          | 70          | 56          | 43          | 71          | 47          | 187         | 89          | 31          | 47          | 98          | 467                    | 885            |
| 1976 | 80          | 156         | 112         | 63          | 100         | 80          | 45          | 12          | 102         | 69          | 16          | 27          | 408                    | 861            |
| 1977 | 28          | 63          | 133         | 128         | 50          | 81          | 67          | 128         | 172         | 44          | 73          | 85          | 542                    | 1,053          |
| 1978 | 112         | 9           | 50          | 85          | 76          | 100         | 52          | 30          | 76          | 61          | 55          | 82          | 396                    | 788            |
| 1979 | 43          | 20          | 68          | 145         | 115         | 67          | 120         | 38          | 71          | 51          | 105         | 72          | 462                    | 914            |
| 1980 | 28          | 26          | 23          | 74          | 55          | 145         | 160         | 97          | 69          | 65          | 24          | 64          | 591                    | 830            |
| 1981 | 15          | 91          | 26          | 110         | 80          | 122         | 128         | 80          | 118         | 79          | 29          | 58          | 607                    | 936            |
| 1982 | 104         | 43          | 60          | 53          | 18          | 63          | 47          | 32          | 78          | 41          | 184         | 96          | 280                    | 821            |
| 1983 | 20          | 33          | 50          | 115         | 123         | 111         | 211         | 48          | 103         | 70          | 113         | 99          | 666                    | 1,097          |
| 1984 | 25          | 47          | 94          | 67          | 101         | 59          | 38          | 68          | 111         | 68          | 64          | 89          | 445                    | 830            |
| 1985 | 56          | 82          | 191         | 22          | 81          | 71          | 84          | 194         | 75          | 74          | 181         | 35          | 580                    | 1,147          |
| 1986 | 6           | 41          | 26          | 78          | 61          | 160         | 106         | 82          | 157         | 91          | 59          | 79          | 657                    | 946            |
| 1987 | 14          | 0           | 27          | 46          | 54          | 131         | 59          | 158         | 116         | 61          | 94          | 89          | 579                    | 848            |
| 1988 | 21          | 55          | 30          | 49          | 14          | 23          | 110         | 96          | 88          | 32          | 104         | 33          | 363                    | 655            |
| 1989 | 34          | 11          | 39          | 77          | 166         | 116         | 295         | 88          | 59          | 59          | 51          | 35          | 784                    | 1,029          |
| 1990 | 36          | 173         | 43          | 62          | 91          | 59          | 49          | 117         | 200         | 93          | 42          | 145         | 609                    | 1,110          |
| 1991 | 26          | 15          | 43          | 91          | 80          | 65          | 10          | 65          | 27          | 132         | 51          | 47          | 378                    | 650            |
| 1992 | 34          | 44          | 70          | 90          | 50          | 67          | 122         | 126         | 134         | 50          | 130         | 55          | 547                    | 968            |
| 1993 | 94          | 8           | 49          | 81          | 54          | 105         | 48          | 31          | 105         | 57          | 45          | 20          | 399                    | 695            |
| 1994 | 74          | 41          | 53          | 90          | 33          | 83          | 31          | 112         | 41          | 56          | 53          | 43          | 356                    | 710            |
| 1995 | 50          | 5           | 37          | 66          | 67          | 38          | 97          | 54          | 36          | 83          | 68          | 13          | 375                    | 614            |
| 1996 | 29          | 28          | 45          | 76          | 69          | 67          | 54          | 18          | 197         | 58          | 35          | 42          | 463                    | 717            |
| 1997 | 34          | 81          | 66          | 22          | 100         | 110         | 49          | 84          | 70          | 38          | 17          | 42          | 450                    | 713            |
| 1998 | 53          | 72          | 66          | 93          | 33          | 48          | 64          | 128         | 25          | 32          | 25          | 13          | 328                    | 651            |
| 1999 | 113         | 24          | 16          | 104         | 56          | 71          | 29          | 58          | 46          | 36          | 39          | 29          | 296                    | 620            |
| 2000 | 15          | 20          | 39          | 73          | 100         | 130         | 136         | 96          | 122         | 79          | 42          | 92          | 662                    | 942            |
| 2001 | 60          | 61          | 15          | 76          | 85          | 32          | 15          | 111         | 134         | 146         | 66          | 48          | 523                    | 848            |
| 2002 | 58          | 35          | 45          | 101         | 104         | 90          | 62          | 21          | 43          | 55          | 82          | 45          | 376                    | 742            |

<span id="page-6-0"></span>Table 2 continued

| Year | Jan<br>(mm) | Feb<br>(mm) | Mar<br>(mm) | Apr<br>(mm) | May<br>(mm) | Jun<br>(mm) | Jul<br>(mm) | Aug<br>(mm) | Sep<br>(mm) | Oct<br>(mm) | Nov<br>(mm) | Dec<br>(mm) | Growing<br>season (mm) | Annual<br>(mm) |
|------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|-------------|------------------------|----------------|
| 2003 | 10          | 32          | 40          | 58          | 159         | 73          | 54          | 48          | 106         | 59          | 74          | 68          | 499                    | 782            |
| 2004 | 40          | 22          | 92          | 42          | 170         | 75          | 93          | 121         | 20          | 56          | 77          | 79          | 535                    | 887            |
| 2005 | 84          | 46          | 8           | 62          | 22          | 23          | 62          | 51          | 66          | 9           | 61          | 56          | 233                    | 551            |
| 2006 | 71          | 49          | 54          | 64          | 104         | 67          | 108         | 76          | 60          | 113         | 77          | 80          | 528                    | 924            |
| 2007 | 90          | 10          | 69          | 67          | 53          | 58          | 36          | 111         | 62          | 58          | 62          | 77          | 379                    | 753            |
| 2008 | 57          | 74          | 69          | 27          | 54          | 186         | 86          | 13          | 125         | 29          | 95          | 78          | 492                    | 893            |

$$\text{Normalized RMSE} = \frac{\text{RMSE}}{\bar{m}}\tag{2}$$

$$\text{EF} = \frac{\sum_{i=1}^{n} \left(m_i - \bar{m}\right)^2 - \sum_{i=1}^{n} \left(s_i - m_i\right)^2}{\sum_{i=1}^{n} \left(m_i - \bar{m}\right)^2} \tag{3}$$

where si and mi are the simulated and measured values, respectively, n is the number of data points, and m is the mean of the measured data. The RMSE measures the mean discrepancy between simulated and measured values with the same unit, while the normalized-RMSE removes the unit and therefore allows comparison of model performance among variables with different units. For model efficiency, EF = 1 indicates perfect correspondence between the simulated and measured data (i.e., s = m), while EF\0 indicates that the simulated values (s) are worse than simply using the mean of m (i.e. m). The classical R2 statistic (1 C R2 C 0) gives the percentage of data variance accounted for by the model.

#### Model runs and outputs

When the DSSAT model is run, it accesses four input files in the following succession: management file, daily weather file (from 1959 to 2008), cultivar file (Table [4](#page-8-0)), and soil profile file (Table [3](#page-7-0)). The daily outputs from the model includes: crop growth (growth stage, LAI, biomass and grain yield, % N in grain and leaves), and for each soil layer, carbon, mineral N (NH4 ?–N and NO3 -–N) and water content. There are also summary outputs, including: evaluation, overview and soil water balance. The outputs are readily visualized using graphical display packages within DSSAT tools (e.g. GBUILD), or by using EasyGrapher, a supporting software program (Yang et al. 2004).

#

No tables found before Methods section.